---
date: 2023-02-07 06:15:50
layout: post
title: "Myers-Briggs Type Indicator"
subtitle: "MBTI-16种性格，熟悉自己性格的优势和弱点"
description: ""
image: https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/61mMngABpYL.jpg
optimized_image:
category: psychology
tags:
    - psychology
author:
paginate: false
---

## About MBTI

E Or I:  
- E(Extraversion): 外向型的人，通过外向型的刺激来获得能量  
- I(Introversion): 内行型的人，通常喜欢自己安静的待着  

S Or N:  
- S(Sensing): 具体型，通过五官去感知  
- N(Intuition): 直觉型，喜欢各种各样不同的可能性  

T Or F:  
- T(Thinking): 理性型，比较严格，看着有些冷酷无情  
- F(Feeling): 感性型，感同身受  

J or P:  
- J(Judging): 计划型，生活非常有规律，有计划  
- P(Perceiving): 灵活型，随性、洒脱   

> IN 组合的人，通常有自我的小世界，也比较喜欢钻研。F.L.A.G(Facebook, LinkedIn, Amazon, Google)种，Facebook 的 Mark Zuckerberg, LinkedIn 的 Reed Hoffman， Amazon 的 Jeff Bezos， Google 的 Larry Page。还有 Albert Einstein, Stephen Hawking  
>
>
> TJ 组合的人，比较冷酷，自我要求比较严格。C罗，小贝，梅西。F.L.A.G的4个人也都是。还有Bill Gates, Warren Buffett  

## 16种性格

| No. | 类型 | 副类型 | 角色 | 描述 | 
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | ISTP-A | ISTP-T | 鉴赏家 | 大胆而实际的实验家，擅长使用任何形式的工具 |
| 2 | ISFP-A | ISFP-T | 探险家 | 灵活有魅力的艺术家，时刻准备着探索和体验新鲜事物 |
| 3 | ESTP-A | ESTP-T | 企业家 | 聪明，精力充沛善于感知的人们，真心享受生活在边缘 |
| 4 | ESFP-A | ESFP-T | 表演者 | 自发的，精力充沛而热情的表演者-生活在他们周围用不无聊 |
| 5 | INTJ-A | INTJ-T | 建筑师 | 富有想象力和战略性的思想家，一切都在计划之中 |
| 6 | INTP-A | INTP-T | 逻辑学家| 具有创造力的发明家，对知识有着止不住的渴望 |
| 7 | ENTJ-A | ENTJ-T | 指挥官 | 大胆，富有想象力且意志强大的领导者，总能找到或创造解决方法 |
| 8 | ENTP-A | ENTP-T | 辩论家 | 聪明好奇的思想者，不会放弃任何智力上的挑战 |
| 9 | ISTJ-A | ISTJ-T | 物流师 | 实际且注重事实的个人，可靠性不容置疑 |
| 10 | ISFJ-A | ISFJ-T | 守卫者 | 非常专注而温暖的守护者，时刻准备着保护爱着的人们 |
| 11 | ESTJ-A | ESTJ-T | 总经理 | 出色的管理者，在管理事情或人的方面无与伦比 |
| 12 | ESFJ-A | ESFJ-T | 执政官 | 极有同情心，爱交往受欢迎的人们，总是热心提供帮助 |
| 13 | INFJ-A | INFJ-T | 提倡者 | 安静而神秘，同时鼓舞人心且不知疲倦的理想主义者 |
| 14 | INFP-A | INFP-T | 调停者 | 诗意，善良的利他主义者，总是热情地为正当理由提供帮助 |
| 15 | ENFJ-A | ENFJ-T | 主人公 | 富有魅力鼓舞人心的领导者，有使听众着迷的能力 |
| 16 | ENFP-A | ENFP-T | 竞选者 | 热情、有创造力爱社交的自由自在的人，总能找到理由微笑 |

## 16种性格优缺点

- **ISTJ - The Inspector**: Reserved and Practical, they tend to be loyal, orderly, and traditional.
    - Strength: ISTJs are planner, both responsible and realistic, place a great deal of emphasis on traditions and laws.
    - Weaknesses: ISTJs can be stubborn, seem insensitive, tend to blame themselves.
- **ISTP - The Crafter**: Highly independent, they enjoy new experiences that provide first-hand learning. 
    - Strength: Logical, learns by experience, action-oriented, realistic and practical, enjoys new things, self-confident and easygoing.
    - Weaknesses: Difficult to get to know, insensitive, grows bored easily, risk-taker, does not like commitment.
- **ISFJ - The Protector**: Warm-hearted and dedicated, they are always ready to protect the people they care about.
    - Strength: Reliable, practical, sensitive, eye for detail
    - Weaknesses: Dislikes abstract concepts, avoids confrontation, dislike change, neglects own needs.
- **ISFP - The Artist**: Easy-going and flexible, they tend to be reserved and artistic.
    - Strength: A peaceful, caring, and considerate nature, great attention to detail, focus on the present, diligence, practicality.
    - Weaknesses: Indecisiveness, trouble with abstract ideas, avoidance of conflict, introversion 
- **INFJ - The Advocate**: Creative and analytical, they are considered one of the rarest Myers-Briggs types. 
    - Strength: Sensitive to the needs of others, reserved, highly creative and artistic, focused on the future, values close, deep relationships, enjoys thinking about the meaning of life, idealistic. 
    - Weaknesses: Can be overly sensitive, sometimes difficult to get to know, stubborn, dislikes confrontation.
- **INFP - The Mediator**: Idealistic with high values, they strive to make the world a better place.
    - Strength: Loyal and devoted, sensitive to feelings, caring and interested in others, works well alone, value close relationships, good at seeing 'the big picture'.
    - Weaknesses: Can be overly idealistic, tends to take everything personally, difficult to get to know, sometimes loses sight of the little things, overlooks details.
- **INTJ - The Architect**: High logical, they are both very creatvie and analytical.
    - Strength: Enjoys theoretical and abstract concepts, high expectations, good at listening, takes criticism well, self-confident and hard-working.
    - Weaknesses: Can be overly analytical and judgmental, very perfectionistic, dislikes talking about emotions, sometimes seems callous or insensitive.
- **INTP - The Thinker**: Quiet and introverted, they are known for having a rich inner world.
    - Strength: Logical and objective, abstract thinker, independent, loyal and affectionate with loved ones
    - Weaknesses: Difficult to get to know, can be insensitive, prone to self-doubt, struggles to follow rules, has trouble expressing feelings.
- **ESTP - The Persuader**: Out-going and dramatic, they enjoy spending time with others and focusing on the here-and-now.
    - Strength: Gregarious, funny, and energetic, Influential and persuasive, Action-oriented, Adaptable and resourceful, Observant.
    - Weaknesses: Impulsive, Competitive, Dramatic at times, Easily bored, Insensitive.
- **ESTJ - The Director**: Assertive and rule-oriented, they have high principles and a tendency to take charge.
    - Strength: Practical and realistic, Dependable, Self-confident, Hard-working, Traditional, Strong leadership skills
    - Weaknesses: Insensitive, Inflexible, Not good at expressiong feelings, Argumentative, Bossy.
- **ESFP - The Performer**: Outgoing and spontaneous, they enjoy talking center stage.
    - Strength: Optimistic and gregarious, Enjoy people and socializing, Focused on the present, spontaneous, Practical.
    - Weaknesses: Dislikes abstract theories, Becomes bored easily, Does not plan ahead, Impulsive
- **ESFJ - The Caregiver**: Soft-hearted and outgoing, they tend to believe the best about other people.
    - Strength: Kind and loyal, Outgoing, Organized, Practical and dependable, Enjoy helping others, Conscientious.
    - Weaknesses: Needy, Approval-seeking, Sensitive to criticism, Dislike change, Intolerant, Controlling.
- **ENFP - The Champion**: Charismatice and energetic, they enjoy situations where they can put their creativity to work.
    - Strength: Warm and enthusiatic, Empathetic and caring, Strong people skills, Strong communication.
    - Weaknesses: Needs approval from others, Disorganized, Tends to get stressed out easily, Can be overly emotional, Overthinks, Struggles to follow rules.
- **ENFJ - The Giver**: Loyal and sensitive, they are known for being unserstanding and generous.
    - Strength: Outgoing and warm-hearted, Empathetic, Wide social circle, Encouraging, Organized, Affectionate, Persuasive.
    - Weaknesses: Approval-seeking, Overly sensitive, Indecisive, Self-sacrificing, Rigid and uncompromising, Overprotective, Manipulative.
- **ENTP - The Debater**: Highly inventive, they love being surrounded by ideas and tend to 
    - Strength: Innovative, Creative, Great conversationalist, Enjoys debating, Values knowledge.
    - Weaknesses: Can be argumentative, Disliks routines and schedules, Does not like to be controlled, Unfocused, Insensitive
- **ENTP - The Commander**: Outspoken and confident, they are great at making plans and organizing projects.
    - Strength: Strong leadership skills, Self-assured, Well-organized, Good at making decisions, Assertive and outspoken, Strong communication skills.
    - Weaknesses: Impatient, Stubborn, Insensitive, Aggressive, Intolerant.

## References

- [How the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator Works](https://www.verywellmind.com/the-myers-briggs-type-indicator-2795583)

